IN PROGRESS: Re-Write Working with Storefront APIs (#355)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/cart-and-checkout/working-sf-apis.md

## Prerequisites

* BigCommerce store with at least two products and a shipping option. 

## Getting Started

To begin, navigate to your storefront and open your browser’s  developer console.

For this tutorial, we will set the credentials and content-type fetch request options to `same-origin` and `application/json`, respectively. In production, your credentials will depend on your app setup. See [Request.credentials](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request/credentials) to learn more about other possible values. 

## Storefront Cart

The first part of this tutorial will cover using the [Storefront Cart API](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-cart-api) to create a cart, add a line item, and delete a line item directly from the storefront.

### Create a Cart

A cart can be created by sending a POST request to `/api/storefront/carts` and passing in an array of `cartItems`. See [Create Cart](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-cart-api/cart/createacart) for more information.

> We will create a helper function, `createCart()`, to accomplish this. Copy and execute the code below to create the function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create the `createCart()` helper function to accomplish this. Copy and execute the code below to create the function. 

```

 "customerId": 0,
 "email": "",
 "currency": {
   "name": "US Dollars",
   "code": "USD",
   "symbol": "$",
   "decimalPlaces": 2
 },
 "isTaxIncluded": false,
 "baseAmount": 274.5,
 "discountAmount": 0,
 "cartAmount": 274.5,
 "coupons": [],
 "discounts": [
	...
 ],
 "lineItems": {
   "physicalItems": [
     {
       "id": "57a877e0-d898-47d0-910d-88656e8dee0c",
       "parentId": null,
       "variantId": 66,
       "productId": 86,
       "sku": "ABS",
       "name": "[Sample] Able Brewing System",
       "url": "https://{store_url}/all/able-brewing-system/",
       "quantity": 1,
		...
       "extendedSalePrice": 225,
       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     },
     {
       "id": "22c461a2-eff9-4b72-8d22-7c2792ce2c2d",
       "parentId": null,
       "variantId": 67,
       "productId": 88,
       "sku": "CC3C",
       "name": "[Sample] Chemex Coffeemaker 3 Cup",
       "url": "https://{store_url}/all/chemex-coffeemaker-3-cup/",
       "quantity": 1,
		...
       "extendedSalePrice": 49.5,
       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     }
   ],
  ...
 },
 ...
}
```

> Please take note of the value of the `cartId` as it will be used later in the tutorial. 

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

>Note: Please take note of the value of the `cartId` as it will be used later in the tutorial.

</div>
</div>
</div>
```

       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     },
     {
       "id": "22c461a2-eff9-4b72-8d22-7c2792ce2c2d",
       "parentId": null,
       "variantId": 67,
       "productId": 88,
       "sku": "CC3C",
       "name": "[Sample] Chemex Coffeemaker 3 Cup",
       "url": "https://{store_url}/chemex-coffeemaker-3-cup/",
       "quantity": 1,
       ...
       "extendedSalePrice": 49.5,
       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     }
   ],
  ...
 },
...
}
```

## Storefront Checkout

In this section, we will add a billing address to a checkout, create a consignment, and update a consignment to add a shipping option directly from the storefront. See [Storefront Checkout](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api) for more information.

Before proceeding, make sure you have added two different line items to your cart.

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">
    
<!-- theme:  -->
### Checkout ID
>Note: `checkoutId` is the `cartId`.

</div>
</div>
</div>

### Add a Billing Address

> To add a billing address to a checkout, send a POST request to the `/api/storefront/checkouts/{checkoutId}/billing-address` endpoint. See [Add Checkout Billing Address](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-billing-address/checkoutsbillingaddressbycheckoutidpost) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a billing address to a checkout, send a POST request to the [Add Checkout Billing Address](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-billing-address/checkoutsbillingaddressbycheckoutidpost) endpoint.

```

         "productId": 88,
         "sku": "CC3C",
         "name": "[Sample] Chemex Coffeemaker 3 Cup",
         "url": "https://{store_url}}/chemex-coffeemaker-3-cup/",
         "quantity": 1,
        ...
         "extendedSalePrice": 49.5,
         "comparisonPrice": 49.5,
         "extendedComparisonPrice": 49.5,
         "isShippingRequired": true,
         "giftWrapping": null,
         "addedByPromotion": false
       }
     ],
    ...
   },
   ...
 },
 "billingAddress": {
   "id": "5e6a8cad71318",
   "firstName": "Jane",
   "lastName": "Doe",
   "email": "janedoe@email.com",
   "company": "BigCommerce",
   "address1": "123 Main Street",
   "address2": "Apt 1",
   "city": "Austin",
   "stateOrProvince": "Texas",
   "stateOrProvinceCode": "TX",
   "country": "",
   "countryCode": "",
   "postalCode": "78751",
   "phone": "",
   "customFields": []
 },
 "consignments": [],
 "orderId": null,
 "shippingCostTotal": 0,
 "shippingCostBeforeDiscount": 0,
 "handlingCostTotal": 0,
 "taxTotal": 27.45,
 "coupons": [],
 "taxes": [
   {
     "name": "Tax",
     "amount": 27.45
   }
 ],
 "subtotal": 274.5,
 "grandTotal": 301.95,
...
 "customerMessage": ""
}
```

### Add a New Consignment 

> A consignment consists of a shipping address with the associated line items. At a minimum, one shipping address with line items and shipping options must be included in the checkout. If multiple shipping locations are used, match each `lineItem` with the correct shipping address.  When adding a shipping address to the checkout, the following query parameter should be included to return the shipping options available for any address: `?include=consignments.availableShippingOptions`. See [Add New Consignment to Checkout](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-consignments/checkoutsconsignmentsbycheckoutidpost) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A consignment consists of a shipping address with the associated line items. At a minimum, one shipping address with line items and shipping options must be included in the checkout. If multiple shipping locations are used, match each `lineItem` with the correct shipping address.  When adding a shipping address to the checkout, include the `?include=consignments.availableShippingOptions` query parameter to return the shipping options available for any address. 

See [Add New Consignment to Checkout](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-consignments/checkoutsconsignmentsbycheckoutidpost) for more information.

```

> We will create a helper function, `createConsignment()`, to test this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `createConsignment()`helper function to test this functionality.

```

```js
function createConsignment(url, cartId, data) {
 return fetch(url + cartId + `/consignments?include=consignments.availableShippingOptions`,   {
     method: "POST",
     credentials: "same-origin",
     headers: {
         "Content-Type": "application/json" ,
     },
     body: JSON.stringify(data),
 })
 .then(response => response.json()); 
 };
```

> Copy and execute the code below to create a new consignmen. Make sure to replace the `cartId` with your own value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy and execute the code below to create a new consignment. Make sure to replace the `cartId` with your own value.

```

            "description": "Pickup In Store",
            "imageUrl": "",
            "cost": 0,
            "transitTime": "",
            "isRecommended": false,
            "additionalDescription": ""
          },
          {
            "id": "4dcbf24f457dd67d5f89bcf374e0bc9b",
            "type": "freeshipping",
            "description": "Free Shipping",
            "imageUrl": "",
            "cost": 0,
            ...
          },
          {
            "id": "85dfaf5f834d7e594f0bd7cf67d5b200",
            "type": "shipping_flatrate",
            "description": "Flat Rate",
            "imageUrl": "",
            "cost": 5,
            ...
          },
          {
            "id": "8809b0bbcc8bdc2d5cad2a4fcbd6cf09",
            "type": "shipping_byweight",
            "description": "Ship by Weight",
            "imageUrl": "",
            "cost": 10,
            ...
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "orderId": null,
    "shippingCostTotal": 0,
    "shippingCostBeforeDiscount": 0,
    "handlingCostTotal": 0,
    "taxTotal": 22.65,
    ...
    "subtotal": 274.5,
    ...
    "customerMessage": ""
  }
```

### Update a Consignment to Add a Shipping Option

> Please note that only one consignment can be updated at a time. To update a consignment, add your `consignmentId` and the appropriate `shippingOptionId` (located inside of the `availableShippingOptions` object) to the PUT request parameters. See [Update Checkout Consignment](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-consignments/checkoutsconsignmentsbycheckoutidandconsignmentidput) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a consignment, add your `consignmentId` and the appropriate `shippingOptionId` (located inside of the `availableShippingOptions` object) to the PUT request parameters. See [Update Checkout Consignment](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api/checkout-consignments/checkoutsconsignmentsbycheckoutidandconsignmentidput) for more information.

>**Note:** Only one consignment can be updated at a time. 

```

> We will create a helper function, `updateConsignment()`, to accomplish this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `updateConsignment()` helper function to accomplish this. 

```

```js
function updateConsignment(url, cartId, consignmentId, data,) {
 return fetch(url + cartId + `/consignments/` + consignmentId,   {
     method: "PUT",
     credentials: "same-origin",
     headers: {
         "Content-Type": "application/json;",
     },
     body: JSON.stringify(data),
 })
 .then(response => response.json());
};
```

> Execute the code below to update the consignment replacing the `cartId` , `consigmentId`, and `shippingOptionId` with your own values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the code below to update the consignment, replacing `cartId` , `consigmentId`, and `shippingOptionId` with your own values.

```

       "stateOrProvince": "Texas",
       "stateOrProvinceCode": "TX",
       "country": "United States",
       "countryCode": "US",
       "postalCode": "78751",
       "phone": "",
       "customFields": []
     }
   },
   {
     "id": "5e6a91ffeac84",
     "shippingCost": 0,
     "handlingCost": 0,
     "couponDiscounts": [],
     "discounts": [],
     "lineItemIds": [
       "22c461a2-eff9-4b72-8d22-7c2792ce2c2d"
     ],
     "selectedShippingOption": null,
     "shippingAddress": {
       "firstName": "John",
       "lastName": "Doe",
       "email": "johnedoe@email.com",
       "company": "BigCommerce",
       "address1": "123 South Street",
       "address2": "Apt 5",
       "city": "Austin",
       "stateOrProvince": "Texas",
       "stateOrProvinceCode": "TX",
       "country": "United States",
       "countryCode": "US",
       "postalCode": "78726",
       "phone": "",
       "customFields": []
     }
   }
 ],
 "orderId": null,
 "shippingCostTotal": 0,
 "shippingCostBeforeDiscount": 0,
 "handlingCostTotal": 0,
 "taxTotal": 22.65,
 "coupons": [],
 "taxes": [
   {
     "name": "Tax",
     "amount": 22.65
   }
 ],
 "subtotal": 274.5,
...
}
```

## Troubleshooting

> **Did you get a 404?**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have at least one item in your cart. Removing all items deletes the cart and returns a 404 error. 

```

       "quantity": 1,
       ...
       "extendedSalePrice": 225,
       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     },
     {
       "id": "22c461a2-eff9-4b72-8d22-7c2792ce2c2d",
       "parentId": null,
       "variantId": 67,
       "productId": 88,
       "sku": "CC3C",
       "name": "[Sample] Chemex Coffeemaker 3 Cup",
       "url": "https://{store_url}/chemex-coffeemaker-3-cup/",
       "quantity": 1,
       ...
       "extendedSalePrice": 49.5,
       "isShippingRequired": true,
       "type": "physical",
       "giftWrapping": null
     }
   ],
  ...
 },
...
}
```

## Storefront Checkout

In this section, we will add a billing address to a checkout, create a consignment, and update a consignment to add a shipping option directly from the storefront. See [Storefront Checkout](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-checkout-api) for more information.

Before proceeding, make sure you have added two different line items to your cart.

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">
    
<!-- theme:  -->

> ### Checkout ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
